# odin-recipes
Hello! This is my first project to test my HTML skills! 
This document acts as a reflection sheet for this whole process.

Hey hey! AFter 3 long hours of figuring stuff out, I have finally returned!

Remember what I said abour coding being completely tough? Yea..... now I can say that bmy first experience with coding has been a mixed bag in terms of difficulty. At first, I remembered all the basic code for to set up html files and even started on the headings and some texts without looking at any guides. IN fact, I was on a roll -- at least for a beginner -- with using the HTML functions that I have learnt. The repository was quickly filling up with more html files and  pictures and I still did not feel that confused navigating each and every file I wanted to use through the terminal. Honestly, the lessons from TOP were great into easing me into all these simple yet important techniques. I truly felt accomplished for doing so much without the need to refer back to lesson material.

However, I was most surprised by how tedious the entire process was. Of course, I am not saying coding was ever a walk in the park, but I did not expect the tediousness of it to come right from the very beginner levels of website coding. Initially, it felt okay when I first did my CHicken Rice website, but when I had to do the other two sites after, it felt more and more like a slog. Perhaps it could have been the lagginess of the Virtual Machine I was  using, but it was simply having to repeat the codes over and over and typing text into a text editor for long periods of time at once. This has taught me a good lesson to pace myself when creating sites, meaning I should take short breaks whenever I complete a website or whatever mini-achievement I set out to do. This way, my mind would constantly be refreshed with more ideas instead of tiring out more easily.

Finally, what is not to love when I have a bunch of errors start to appear? WHen I finished the project, I checked the code in the browser only to realize that I had  my lists not listed, had a stray line of text saying "DOCTYPE html>" on my chilli crab website, and realized that I never created links to my recipes on my homepage. This felt painful to do as I only checked for such errors after sitting through 2h straight of coding. WHat would have been better is to always check how my code looks on a browser whenever I have made any meaningful commits, like website designs or the text. This way, I can more easily find mistakes in my code and fix them on the spot instead of having toleaving them all to the end. However, this seemingly bad thing did remind me about something important, actually committing my changes to GitHub. I only spotted the mistakes one by one, so I had to continuosly go through the process of adding, committing and ppushing to origin main three times back-to-back. AT least I better remember those steps though, right?

Never would I have imagined that I would like my first solo coding experience. I learnt so much about coding, including the code elements themselves, to remembering to constantly commit any meaningful changes, and to regularly check the codde after any meaningful changes instead of leaving the checks to the end of the session. This acts as a reminder to myself that consistency is better than cramming. I cannot survive doing anything for long working periods without taking short breaks. The pacing of my lessons from doing them every day to just once every two to three days has been more sustainable for me as it made me more motivated to learn new things; This session also proved that taking breaks in between my work is ok to freshen my mind throughout my project. 

Lastly, coding is a long journey. I may be enjoying it now with all the help and guidance that is being given. HOwever,I will be thrown off a cliff someday to actually challenge and do things here and solve challenging design issues by myself. Things will get tough, so all these lessons and habits I have learnt will definitely go a long way to keep my motivation going. FOr now, I shall enjoy the honeymoon phase, but I will not take it for granted.

Thank you for listening in -- or well..... -- reading my TEDTalk! Good luck out there soldier!

Josiah (23/7/24)